# Incident: 2025-04-03 16-14-00

## Summary

For 19 minutes beginning at 16:04 UTC on April 3, 2025, 21 users attempted to order pizzas and encountered failure messages. This was a result of the third-party pizza factory going down at 16:04. The pizza factory did not send JWT tokens, causing the order requests to fail each time.  
  
This event was detected by the Grafana visualization of revenue and pizzas ordered dropping to 0. The outtage was reported to the pizza factory with the link in the error response, and it was promptly fixed at 10:23, causing all following order requests to work as expected.

## Detection

This event did not cause any alerts to go off, as all preexisting alert systems only were set up for high latency or number of requests. This caused the outtage to not be caught for 18 minutes, at which point Kate observed on the Grafana dashboard that the revenue and pizzas ordered had dropped to 0, and upon further inspection of the log, pursued resolution.  
  
To prevent against this issue going uncaught, alerts will be added for a high number of third-party call errors so Kate will be notified if a similar outtage occurs.

## Impact

For 19 minutes between 16:04:44 and 16:23:53 UTC, all order requests failed. This affected 21 order requests from 1 user of 3 active users at the time. No support tickets were submitted.  

## Timeline

All times are in UTC.  
- _16:04_ - order request sent by user
- _16:04_ - pizza factory failed to respond with JWT
- _16:04_ - failure message forwarded to user
- _16:05-16:23_ - 20 more order requests made by user, all failed
- _16:22_ - issue observed on Grafana dashboard
- _16:23_ - issue reported to third-party with link in error response
- _16:23_ - issue resolved by third-party
- _16:23_ - order request sent by user is successful

## Response

Kate came online at 16:22 UTC, observed the uncharacteristicly low metrics on Grafana, and searched the logs to find the source. She used the report link to report the issue to the third-party, who resolved the outtage at 16:23 UTC.

## Root cause

This issue was caused by an outtage from the third-party pizza factory.

## Resolution

The failure message from the third-party service contained a call to report the outtage. The outtage was fixed nearly immediately after hitting the link.  
  
We may consider automating the process of reporting the outtage to the third party, so if itt should occur again, it can be resolved much quicker.

## Prevention

This same root cause has not resulted in any previous incidents.

## Action items

1. Expand alerts to be triggered by a high number of errors from the pizza factory service.
2. Look into automating hitting report link if pizza factory fails.